this is Richard Mayer siren calm and did
everyone look at the question how much
money to see amazed made now for those
of you who don't notice that you know
just stands for a certified nursing
assistant and they are wonderful careers
they're an entry-level to health care in
most cases you can become a CNA over the
course of just a few years few weeks or
maybe a month that's the longest you can
usually get a certification to do that
and in this video I'm gonna give you a
brief overview of some of the duties of
CNAs do on a daily basis and also I'm
going to talk about some salary figures
and a few tips on how to advance your
career as well okay now what does the
scene I do on a daily basis well the
most common tasks a CNA will do is
they'll assist patients with basic needs
such as monitoring the food intake
outtake taking patients vital signs
feeding patients assisting other medical
professionals such as Oren's or doctors
assisting patients out of better into
bed providing patient hygiene helping
patients walk collecting samples from
patients reporting changes in their
health status to supervisors assisting
patients with home upkeep making beds
performing routine medical tasks and
cleaning rooms and some of the more
common paths that you're finally doing
and okay now let's talk about salary how
much can you make as a CNA well there is
a high demand for CNA so that's good
news anytime you enter into a job it's
definitely great news to see that there
is a demand for that job and according
to the Bureau of Labor Statistics it's
expected to have an 18% increase in jobs
until 2018 so that's you know again an
excellent trend shows that there's going
to be demand a lot of jobs should be
available for CMAs for the foreseeable
future so that's great news CNA is
usually do not receive a salary they're
usually paid on an hourly basis and the
median hourly wage for a CNA is around
11 dollars and 46 cents an hour now the
lowest 10% of CNAs earned approximately
eight dollars and 34 cents an hour while
the highest interest and earned about 16
there's almost so and the middle 50%
aren't about nine dollars and seventy
one cents so what this data shows is
that you know as an entry-level CNA if
you don't have a lot of experience or if
you live in a smaller town probably
gonna make around $8 an hour give or
take a few cents and if you are in a
more established City maybe you have
years of experience as a CNA
you may be able to pull in as high 16
dollars and again that salary or the
hourly wage will fluctuate depending on
your experience and also the demand for
the job in your area and the overall
cost of living and as far as some a few
tips to advance your career as a CNA
you can wear conditional hours working
additional hours on the job will give
you some opportunities to really gain a
lot of experience in a short amount of
time so that's something that you can do
you can also participate in continuing
education opportunities a lot of
healthcare facilities will offer
opportunities to take like you know CPR
and you know additional certifications
for maybe cardiac this a man so
definitely if your employer ever offers
a certification to advance your
knowledge as a CNA you should definitely
take that if you want to receive an
advanced degree that's a great way to
climb up the career ladder you can go to
LPN or even an RN and ELQ you know takes
as little as a year sometimes an RN you
can do as little as two years with you
could go for the adn degree so that's a
great way to really increase your salary
increase your job responsibilities and
so if you're interested at all in doing
that that's a great thing to do and we
also often tell people you know CNA is a
great position if you want to start out
in healthcare and really if you want to
move up we tell people all the time you
know CNA is a great job while you're in
nursing school here in the summers or
give you that experience and a lot of
times if you can't afford nursing school
if you become a CNA your employer may
offer what's known as a tuition
reimbursement program and what that is
they'll simply pay for either all or
part of your education to get in Vance
degree such as LPN or RN
and so we often you know advised people
that hey if you can't pay for nursing
school see if your employer offers a
tuition reimbursement program and go
work as a CNA first not only gives you
experience but it will give you that
opportunity to help cover your tuition
now if you've never been to our website
its registered nurse RN comm we didn't
want you to come by we have a lot of
great resources if you're interested in
becoming a CNA or a registered nurse or
LPN or you know nurse practitioner any
any healthcare or nursing occupation
they have a lot of great resources for
jobs for how to apply to nursing school
tips on how about for nursing school
care plans we have a lot of salary data
for each healthcare occupation so we
really thought you to come by also we'll
be putting out some more videos on
YouTube so you may want to subscribe so
thank you so much for watching that's
all we have have a great day